so thanks for coming along my name is
Jay I'm one of the IELTS specialists at
e2 language comm I've actually taken
this test myself and I did get a 9 in
IELTS reading ah I'm also an English
language teacher of course I'm going to
show you how you can maximize your
scores one of the things you need to
know about is this we're going to look
at an IELTS reading fundamental skill
called detail this is the second part if
you haven't seen the first part do go
and check it out it'll be up in our
channel somewhere right let's get
started there are three fundamental
skills that you need to succeed on IELTS
reading they are detail main idea and
logic we're going to look at detail in
this one and there are certain questions
that come with detail those questions
are let me get out my pen multiple
choice you need to be able to identify
details match sentence endings
information features sentence completion
summary note table completion diagram
labeling and short answer all of these
require you to be able to look into that
passage and pick out particular words
there are some secrets to be able to do
this let's have a close look so in this
one we're going to do a live mock test
and we're going to look at multiple
choice we're going to look at sentence
completion and summary table completion
let's first think about strategy
strategy you certainly need a strategy
in the IELTS reading what I notice when
I did IELTS reading is that there is
very little time and you've got an awful
lot of text to read and the questions
are confusing and you're surrounded by
all these people and you feel really
nervous you need to go in well-prepared
so let's have a look at this strategy
strategy is this this is how the IELTS
reading for detail questions work so
you'll have a question right and you'll
find a key word in the question you'll
find a key word in the question
then you'll need to be able to find the
corresponding keyword in the passage
which is usually a synonym what do I
mean by that so you're looking at your
test paper right and on the left hand
side you have all the right-hand side
maybe you have the question might be on
the left let's put on the left you have
the question it's a multiple-choice
question say and in the question prompt
it says some sort of key word okay fine
so you identify that key word then you
look in the passage and you need to
quickly find the corresponding key word
in the passage so then you can actually
answer the question that's a real skill
so let's have a look and get some
practice of this this is what I mean
this is what it looks like so you get
two key word hold on you get key word
here so you found a key word in the
question great and then you look
anything oh good there's the synonym or
the same key word here in the passage
the answer will be around here somewhere
but it's not that easy you see what
happens is sometimes the same key word
in the question and passage whoopsie I
didn't mean to do that
sometimes you'll have the same key word
in the question and passage like run and
run that's easy
fine so you see the word run you look in
the passage you see the word run you can
identify where to find the answer but
sometimes the same key word in the
question and passage but in a different
form what do I mean by that well in the
question it might say run but in the
passage it might say ran or has run or
is running what you need to be able to
do is identify meaning not the exact
word you need to read for meaning in the
key word it says run in the passage it
says has run or is running or will have
run something like that that's one
possible way sometimes the key word in
the question is a synonym in the passage
we mean by that well you might see the
word run in the question but in the
passage you'll see the word sprint okay
right that makes it a bit harder doesn't
it because it's not just a matter of
identifying
this if it were that easy if only it was
that easy we'd say run and then we'd
look me
where's run where's run wears run
where's run oh it's a synonym it's not
going to be the exact same corresponding
keyword fine or you might look in the
passage and say jog or marathon are
completely not even in verb this time
we've got an here we have a verb in here
we have a noun but that will be your
synonym this is probably the hardest
part about IELTS reading is there use of
synonyms so you might have a vocabulary
that's quite big fine you can identify
run but can you identify marathon can
you identify jog and sprint is your
vocabulary big enough to be able to
identify synonyms that's critical that's
a hard thing to be able to do let's do a
little activity let's call it a race
because you've got to move fast I want
you to find the key words in the passage
okay so as we talked about sometimes you
might have to identify phrase we have to
identify key word but in a different
form or you'll have to identify a
synonym I'm going to give you three
minutes to do two minutes two minutes to
do this one what are the corresponding
key words your time starts now
one minute left move fast move fast
put your answers into the chat or the
comments below and don't forget to click
like please
five four three two one and I'm gonna
give you more time because it's a little
bit complex so give you one more minute
if you've already finished you can
always skip this
ten seconds
all right let's go through these answers
what are we looking at so answers fine
so in the question you might see
something like a young male mouse in the
passage you'll see adolescent male mice
so similar meaning synonymous phrase as
a synonymous phrase but low in well you
might see that in the question but in
the passage it will say lacking so it's
just a synonym are kind of both verbs
nervousness will be anxiety-like
behavior nervousness maybe they're
exhibiting nervousness in the question
in the passage it will say something
about exhibiting and anxiety-like
behavior poor scores worse performance
enough adequate so enough nutrition or
adequate nutrition just both adjectives
synonyms their formation and role
well maybe it's talking about the brain
but it's talking about the structure and
front function of the brain become more
independent gain increasing independence
decide for themselves make their own
choices less expensive more affordable
choose unhealthy foods opt for foods
that lack key nutrients if you get this
you'll get IELTS reading this is what
it's all about it's about how to say one
thing in another way using different
words that's how they trick you that's
well it's not really how they trick you
that's how they test to see if you
understand these concepts it's all about
having a big vocabulary it's all about
good practice materials it's all about
putting in the hard work right let's do
a live mock test why not why not why not
so what I want you to do is I want you
to get out a piece of paper and I want
you to write 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 like
this vertically this will be your
scorecard we're going to do 10 questions
and we're going to look at this passage
here now when I did my eye
reading I did not read the passage from
beginning to end there isn't enough time
what I did was I knew that the questions
follow the same sequence as the passage
so question one the answer is going to
be located at the top question two will
be lower question three lower etc and it
follows through like this so I didn't
just read through the passage I glanced
at it so I could understand what it was
about but what I did then is I went
straight to question one it was a
multiple-choice question look for that
keyword looked in the passage for the
corresponding keyword kind of read
around the the key word to find the
answer found the answer
move to the next one so actually you do
read the passage anyway but as you
answer the questions cool
so in fact on test day I wouldn't read
this from beginning to end what I would
do is I'd move straight to the questions
such as multiple choice and I would do
them so I'm going to give you three
minutes to do this these multiple choice
questions here one two three
one more minute
all right how did you go with multiple
choice they're usually the first set of
questions that you'll receive in IELTS
reading and they're probably the
simplest to understand the format of the
next set of questions we're going to do
is a summary completion let me explain
this one to you because it does require
a little bit of explanation fine so
we've got a gap here in it we have a
summary rather here's a summary and what
this summary is is effectively this
turned into a you're using all synonyms
but here we've got two and we've got a
gap it should actually say four five six
zero that should say four five and six
and we've got particular words that we
need to pull directly for example
directly from the text into the gap now
the instruction says no more than one
word so we can only use a single word
that that instruction will change on
test day so give you three minutes to
complete this summary
sorry let me just change this this is my
fault
I'll uh I'll just change the numbers
this is number four this is number five
and this is number six
ten seconds
give you another 30 seconds just in case
remember to type your answers into the
comments and don't forget to click like
alright that's a bit of a tricky one I
was just looking at that I thought wow
especially number four there let's move
on to the next set of questions which
are sentence completion questions fine
it's very similar to the one we saw
before but what you will see as a little
bit of a difference is you'll see an
unfinished sentence you need to complete
the sentence by filling the gap fine
we better read the instruction though
there's no more than three words so you
can use three two or one words to fill
that gap fine let's do this one you have
three minutes before we look at the
answers
how is it going this is a bit tough I
think I've put the some tricky tricky
questions into this that's right if
you're struggling don't sweat we're
going to look at the answers in a second
I'm going to show you how we arrive at
these answers so let's go through the
answers now fine so you should have
written your scores down oh sorry your
scores your answers from one to ten
let's look at those answers so tame let
me just get out my pen here and read
very good cool so what type of cats this
is a real key here what type because
here are the different types of tame
wild caged or feline now we're going to
be looking for a synonym aren't we and
here we can see that it says cats were
domesticated domesticated and so that's
the synonym that we're looking for tame
and domesticated mean the same thing
fine and it says what type of cats
originated in Egypt okay fine
and also here says here the origins of
domestic cats that's probably a better
place to read here actually origins of
domestic cats Herald from ancient Egypt
cool so we got number one which is a
number two let's have a look at the
question it says which led which led
which of these a B C or D which led to
the increase in the number of cats well
this says they that means the cats the
cats the domesticated cats later spread
across Europe and other parts of the
world via trade by trade so they spread
so that's that that's the synonym for
increase okay so what's the synonym for
trade is it farming theft Commerce or
DNA well it has to be commerce commerce
and trade as synonyms that mean the same
thing this is how we read for detail
cool what about the next one that says
let's let's look at it before we show
the answer just to create a little bit
of suspense the original cat's fur so
this is a key word here you're looking
for cat's fur the cat's fur a cat's fur
okay okay fine
so these ancient cats these ancient cats
had stripes
okay spotted cats when were uncommon
until the Middle Ages so it's not that
so this is the word that we're trying to
look for a synonym for so what about
speckled stripes no solid no lined good
spotty no so the answer in fact is lined
was typically stripes lined there you go
so the answers for one two three are a C
and C if you've got that do put a smiley
face and click like what about the are
the summary the summary completion the
summary completion all right let's have
a look at it first one was a real trick
I bet you most of you were looking for a
number because in fact with read this
sentence it's it's something something
so we don't know this yet we don't know
this something of modern-day domestic
cats and their ancestors are almost
identical so what's what's almost
identical between modern-day domestic
cats and the ancestors fellas silver
Terrace well what's almost identical
well here's felis Silvestri's here and
here it says all skeletons look exactly
alike
interesting interesting so we've got a
bit of a synonym happening here if we
look closely because we've got we've got
we've got we've got almost identical and
then we've got indistinguishable and
look exactly like so we know we're going
to be reading around here and this is
the key word so the key word isn't the
isn't a synonym that's a direct word
that we have to put in here but we need
to read around here to find the web gets
a little bit complex what am I trying to
say
the word skeletons came directly from
the passage how we found that that was
the keyword that we needed to fight as
the answer with the surrounding words
were synonyms from the question or from
the summary that's what I was trying to
say cool
let's look at number two number two says
well let me get out my pen again says
felis Silvestri's lib iike so this is
just felis Silvestri's we're not looking
here anymore
we've moved down to this part here we've
found a key word corresponding key words
the exact key word so we know where to
look fine says felis Silvestri's Ljubica
which is a north african white well this
is felis Silvestri's lipika a subspecies
found in north africa this is a North
African this is a direct word that we
take and we put here as number two
number two the answer is subspecies
subspecies subspecies sweet easy number
three number three number three right
let's have a look so ancient farms
probably attracted cats because they had
plenty of what well plenty of rodents
how did we arrive at rodents the first
we read reading here the first
agricultural settlements probably
attracted wild cats because they were
rife with rodents ancient farms probably
attracted cats because they had plenty
of plenty of there's your synonym for
rife with rife with plenty of they are
the synonyms but the key word that we
want there is rodents and that is the
answer for number three just remember
for this one we're taking words directly
from the passage we're not saying mice
or rats we're taking that word rodents
directly from the passage they're cool
let's look at the next set of answers
answers answers that's what we want
answers answers answers so this was
sentenced completion the cat's
accompanied farm ins farmers who were
white
alright alright alright alright let's
have a look so this is an interesting
little keyword and we're going to find a
synonym up here it says migrating
farmers took with them so take with them
you take the cats with them that's the
same meaning as accompanied right so we
know we're looking around this area here
and it says the cats accompanied farmers
who were well what were they doing what
were they doing of course they were
migrating they were migrating migrating
so that's the word that you use to
complete the sentence the cats
accompanied farmers who were migrating
fire and it's a single word not bad not
bad not bad let's have a look at
whoopsie I knew that would happen let's
go back let's look at next one the cats
proved useful on what Wow what does it
say it says used to fight vermin on
Egyptian trade ships the cats traveled
to large parts okay so we've got the
cats proved useful on this is a real key
this little this little word here
because well they've proved useful on
farms you could say but that's not what
any none of this is about farms this is
about proving I believe this where boats
was there there's the synonym ships so
here are the two words that you needed
to complete it remember we can use we
can use two words that's fine but we
can't use four we can use one two or
three so we have Egyptian trade boats
fine if we just wrote trade boat it
would be incorrect because we need more
information than that let's have a look
at number nine ancient cat typically had
striped coats well we almost saw the
answer for that before didn't we we saw
the answer for that before striped they
found that the striped cat was more
common in ancient times common
typical you can see how these just say
the same thing but in different words
that is what IELTS reading is all about
that's what it's all about let's have a
look at the last one let's look at the
question before we look at the answer
varied fir patterns became more common
in alright let's have a look at how we
can find they're so varied furred
patterns
okay so we got varied fur okay okay so
what have we got what have we got we're
talking about striped cats here were
more common in ancient times okay varied
fur patterns became more common in
ancient times okay this is also
illustrated blah-blah-blah-blah-blah the
blotched pattern did not become common
until the middle ages so varied so here
we've just got one type the striped here
we've got a blotched pattern so this is
where it becomes varied this is where it
becomes varied fine and when when did it
become varied well in the Middle Ages
we've got in we've got in we need these
three words here one two and three and
this is fine because we can use three
words from the instructions so varied
fur patterns became more common in the
Middle Ages if you're finding this
particularly difficult I want to show
you what you should do if you're finding
this hard then do check this out WWWE to
language language dot-com and you can do
slash IELTS
if you need help check out that website
we've got heaps of reading content
available plus strategies plus
vocabulary building tools plus grammar
lessons plus plus plus everything you
need check it out you can also make a
free account which is good so e to
language comm fine let's look at the
scores here sorry the answers the
answers are this one a 2 C 3 C 4
skeletons 5 subspecies 6 rodents 7
migrating 8 Egyptian trade 9 striped and
10 the Middle Ages now there's a little
bit of complexity here let's not we
haven't finished yet right if you wrote
if you wrote skeletons with a small s or
if you just wrote skeleton you would be
wrong it needs to be because it's taken
straight from the text there and it was
the first word of the sentence
skeletons plural you must get the
grammar right in your answers what's
another one again rodents not rodent if
you write rodent if you wrote rodent it
would be wrong
ok rodents and if you wrote Egyptian
with a small e if you wrote Egypt wrong
you have to be so careful in IELTS to
make sure that you use the correct
punctuation the correct capital letters
and and the correct grammar the
especially plural nouns things like this
and here taken straight from the text
Middle Ages has a capital M and a
capital A so make sure you do that cool
I think that's it actually what if I got
left on this screen here nothing just
you to language if you have any
questions if you have any comments if
you like this do put a comment in below
click thumbs up but do yourself a favor
go to WWE to language comm sign up for
free get some help think about taking
some tutorials join our live classes
struggling with IELTS we are the people
to help you thanks very much my name is
J you can check out my other videos on
YouTube as well let me in for now
disappear am I going to disappear yes
let me disappear how do I disappear and
wait disappear I think I do this